Added Dual Engine API Ref (IE Mode) (#2859)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/dualengine/concepts/adapter-dll.md

---
title: Understanding the DualEngine Adapter DLL
description: Understanding the requirements and uses of DualEngine Adapter DLL.
author: MSEdgeTeam
ms.author: edgededev
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.prod: microsoft-edge
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.technology: windows-integration
ms.date: 11/06/2023
---

# Understanding the DualEngine Adapter DLL
The DualEngine API is an API that can only be used from inside the Internet Explorer process.

> As such in order to make use of the API it is necessary to create a plugin DLL that Internet Explorer will load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use this API, it's necessary to create a plugin DLL that Internet Explorer will load.
```
probably no net gain in clarity by keeping the extra words

Reviewer: The DualEngine API can only be used from inside the Internet Explorer process.  Therefore, to use the DualEngine API, you must create a plugin DLL that Internet Explorer loads.  This DLL hosts your code that uses the DualEngine API, as well as any code that you need to communicate with your main application; that's why it's referred to as the _adapter_.

> This DLL will host your code that uses the DualEngine API as well as presumably any code you need to communicate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This DLL will host your code that uses the DualEngine API, as well as any code you need to communicate
```

Reviewer: This DLL hosts your code that uses the DualEngine API, as well as any code that's needed for communicating with your main application;

> with your main application, hence why it is referred to as the adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with your main application, hence why it is referred to as the _adapter_.
```

Reviewer: This DLL hosts your code that uses the DualEngine API, as well as any code that's needed for communicating with your main application; that's why it's referred to as the _adapter_.

There are a number of requirements to fulfill to have Internet Explorer successfully load your DLL.

## Limited Access Feature Requirements

> The DualEngine API is what is known as a Limited Access Feature (LAF) which are features that need to be unlocked before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DualEngine API is a Limited Access Feature (LAF), which means a feature that needs to be unlocked before
```

Reviewer: The DualEngine API is a Limited Access Feature (LAF); that is, a feature that needs to be unlocked before it can be used.

> they can be used, see [LimitedAccessFeatures Class](/uwp/api/windows.applicationmodel.limitedaccessfeatures) for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it can be used.  See [LimitedAccessFeatures Class](/uwp/api/windows.applicationmodel.limitedaccessfeatures) for
```

Reviewer: The DualEngine API is a Limited Access Feature (LAF); that is, a feature that needs to be unlocked before it can be used.  For more information, see [LimitedAccessFeatures Class](/uwp/api/windows.applicationmodel.limitedaccessfeatures).

more information.

With that said the DualEngine API is not a typical LAF and 
`Windows.ApplicationModel.TryUnlockFeature` is not used to unlock the feature. This is

> because LAF typically uses the application identity of the calling process to grant access, as a plugin DLL this

Reviewer: ```suggestion
because an LAF typically uses the application identity of the calling process to grant access, and as a plugin DLL, this
```

Reviewer: because LAF typically uses the application identity of the calling process to grant access, and as a plugin DLL,

will always be Internet Explorer. Therefore to unlock the API you are required to call 
[DualEngineSessionFactory::TryUnlockFeature](../reference/dualenginesessionfactory.md#tryunlockfeature).

> In addition the identity of you're application is required to be provided to Internet Explorer via a specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, the identity of your application is required to be provided to Internet Explorer via a specific
```

Reviewer: In addition, the identity of your application must be provided to Internet Explorer via a specific resource string that's set in your DLL.  You can set the value in your resource file as follows:

> resource string set in your DLL, you can set the value in your resource file like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resource string set in your DLL.  You can set the value in your resource file as follows:
```

Reviewer: resource string that's set in your DLL.  You can set the value in your resource file as follows:

> IDENTITY LIMITEDACCESSFEATURE { L"ExampleApp_6v1kqc8g0gcae" }

Your specific identity string will be provided to you by Microsoft when LAF access is granted.

## Exports
It is required that your adapter DLL implement a number of exports. These exports are called by Internet Explorer
when loading your DLL and provide you with the factory objects for creating DualEngine API objects.

> It should be noted that these exports are called from the main thread of Internet Explorer process so doing any

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These exports are called from the main thread of the Internet Explorer process, so doing any
```

Reviewer: These exports are called from the main thread of the Internet Explorer process, so doing any

> long term processing inside the exports will halt Internet Explorer, as such it is recommended to create a new

Reviewer: ```suggestion
long term processing inside the exports will halt Internet Explorer.  Therefore, it's recommended to create a new
```

Reviewer: long-term processing inside the exports will halt Internet Explorer.  Therefore, to handle any long-running work, you should create a new thread.

> thread to handle any long running work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thread to handle any long-running work.
```

Reviewer: These exports are called from the main thread of the Internet Explorer process, so doing any long-term processing inside the exports will halt Internet Explorer.  Therefore, to handle any long-running work, you should create a new thread.

#### DualEngineInitialize
> HRESULT APIENTRY DualEngineInitialize(DualEngineSessionFactory* pSessionFactory, PCWSTR pipeName)

##### Parameters

> * `pSessionFactory` The factory object to use to access the DualEngine API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `pSessionFactory` The factory object to use to access the DualEngine API.
```

Reviewer: * `pSessionFactory` The factory object to use to access the DualEngine API.

* `pipeName` A string that was passed in to Internet Explorer via the `-DualEnginePipe` command line flag.

This export is called immediately after Internet Explorer successfully loads the DLL. This is your first chance
to set up anything necessary for your application.

> Presumably this is where you would setup communication between the adapter DLL and your host App, the `pipeName`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Presumably this is where you would setup communication between the adapter DLL and your host App.  The `pipeName`
```

Reviewer: This is where you would typically set up communication between the adapter DLL and your host app.

> string is provided for this purpose. Despite it's name this need not be a pipe name, it is simply a string passed 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
string is provided for this purpose. Despite its name, this need not be a pipe name; it's simply a string that's passed 
```

Reviewer: string is provided for this purpose.  Despite its name, the `pipeName` string doesn't need to be a pipe name; it's simply a string that's passed

> to your adapter based on the value of `-DualEnginePipe` command line flag Internet Explorer was launched with and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to your adapter based on the value of `-DualEnginePipe` command line flag Internet Explorer was launched with, and
```

Reviewer: to your adapter based on the value of the `-DualEnginePipe` command-line flag that Internet Explorer was launched with, and has no other semantic meaning.

has no other semantic meaning.

> Also note that while the `pSessionFactory` object is provided in this call it is currently not valid to call 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, although the `pSessionFactory` object is provided in this call, it is currently not valid to call 
```

Reviewer: Although the `pSessionFactory` object is provided in this call, it's not valid to call `GetVersionedBrowserSession` yet, because at this point, Internet Explorer isn't ready to create Sessions.

> `GetVersionedBrowserSession` here as Internet Explorer is currently not ready to create Sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`GetVersionedBrowserSession` here, because Internet Explorer is currently not ready to create sessions.
```

Reviewer: it's not valid to call `GetVersionedBrowserSession` yet, because at this point, Internet Explorer isn't ready to create Sessions.

#### DualEngineReady
> HRESULT APIENTRY DualEngineReady()

> This export is called after Internet Explorer has finished all of it's initial setup and the API is ready to use. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This export is called after Internet Explorer has finished all of its initial setup and the API is ready to use. 
```

Reviewer: This export is called after Internet Explorer has finished all of its initial setup and the API is ready to use.

> It is now possible to call `GetVersionedBrowserSession` and get the Session object assuming a successful call to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is now possible to call `GetVersionedBrowserSession` and get the Session object, if a successful call to 
```

Reviewer: It's now possible to call `GetVersionedBrowserSession` and get the Session object, assuming a successful call to `TryUnlockFeature` has been made.

`TryUnlockFeature` has been made.

## Signing
Internet Explorer has a requirement that an adapter DLL must be signed by a trusted signature for it to be loaded.

> For testing and development purposes this check can be bypassed by turning TestSigning on for the device you're testing on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For testing and development purposes, this check can be bypassed by turning TestSigning on for the device you're testing on.
```

Reviewer: Internet Explorer has a requirement that for an adapter DLL to be loaded, it must be signed with a trusted signature.  For testing and development purposes, this check can be bypassed, by turning on `TestSigning` for the device that you're testing on, as follows:

> This can be done with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be done with the following command:
```

Reviewer: Internet Explorer has a requirement that for an adapter DLL to be loaded, it must be signed with a trusted signature.  For testing and development purposes, this check can be bypassed, by turning on `TestSigning` for the device that you're testing on, as follows:
